# IQUEYE PRESTO Tutorial

We have a couple of workflows according to what are you trying to do. For this, there are a lot of tools installed in the docker image. The softwares present are:
 - PRESTO v5.0.3
 - TEMPO  v13.103
 - TEMPO2 v2025.01.2
 - PSRCHIVE v2025-05-13

 If you build the image yourself, it will pull the latest software version available.

## Transforming IQUEYE .fits to .dat
The first step is to make a readeable format for PRESTO. For this, inside the container, we use `iqfits2dat.py`. We need to provide the template `.inf` file, the output path, and the `.fits` file. For PRESTO compatibility issues, we need to select the `bin time` fo the light curve right now. I recommend to go low, as you can always undersample, but you can't oversample. However, if you use a `dt` too small, the files will be large, and the process slower. It will depend in the amount of counts that file has. 

- Example: ``iqfits2dat.py -t path/to/template.inf -o path/to/outfile -dt 1e-6 path/to/infile.fits``

Useful flags:
 - `-nobary`; by default, this command tries to barycenter the data using `prepdata` command from PRESTO. This flag will override this. Also, if the IQUEYE `.fits` are already barycentered, it will automatically skip this step.
 - `--pulsar_name`, `-ra`, `-dec`; This command needs the RA and DEC of the source. In the script there is a small dictionary with all the already observed targets from the 2025-02 IQUEYE run. If for some reason, you need to open another target, please provide the RA, DEC and Target name manually. 
 
TODO: reference this into a file of targets so they can be added on hot. 

Note: this command is programmed only for IQUEYE `.fits`, both barycentered or not. Any other `.fits` will likely fail or produce wrong results.


## Searching for a signal
Once you’ve transformed your data into the required format, you can start searching for periodic signals.

Use `exploredat` to visualize and inspect the `.dat` file, which represents your time series. This is useful to check if the data look reasonable before doing any further processing. You only need to provide the path to the `.dat` file.

- Example: ``exploredat path/to/infile.dat``

The `realfft` command performs a Fast Fourier Transformation (FFT) on your time series, converting your signal from the time domain to the frequency domain. This generates an `.fft` file, which you can visualize with `explorefft`. The FFT will reveal periodicities in the signal.

- Example: `` realfft path/to/infile.dat``

`accelsearch` conducts Fourier-domain acceleration searches for periodic signals. This step, among other things, will produce candidate period values that you can later use to fold the signal. You can read the text file generated by this command using `cat path/to/file_ACCEL_num`. Usually, the best period candidate appears in the first position.

- Example: ``accelsearch path/to/infile.fft`` 

Useful flags:
 - `-zmax` defines the maximum number of Fourier bins the highest harmonic is allowed to linearly drift within the power spectrum. The larger the number, the longer the analysis will take. The default is 200, but for isolated pulsars, you can get away with setting a much lower number (30-100).
 - `-numharm` sets the number of harmonics to sum (valid values: 1, 2, 4, 8, 16 and 32), the default is 8.  Again, larger values increase the time the searches take. For millisecond pulsars (MSPs), 8 harmonics is almost always enough. 



## Folding

## Building a .par file

## Folding with .par file

# NICER PRESTO Tutorial
